Computational security measures the amount of computational effort required to break a system.
Unconditional or perfect security measures the security of a system when there are no computational or time limits on the attacker

If we have unconditional security, we might say something like "given a ciphertext, the attacker had no idea what the plaintext is."
But, does this make sense? what if the attacker knows what type of message it might be, or they could just guess the plaintext? We can't actually claim that the attacker knows nothing of the message.
What we actually want to say is that if the attacker sees the ciphertext, they won't know any more about the plaintext then they already did.

### Formalizing unconditional security
let's assume that only one message is being encrypted, and that our only  concern is the security of this encryption.

we assume there are given probability distributions on  the set of all messages $\mathcal{M}$ and the set of all keys $\mathcal{K}$. Let's assume all messages and keys are equally likely/uniform.
Let's write M, K, C as randomly chosen elements from $\mathcal{M,K,C}$ 
we we want $Pr[M=m]$ to denote the prob that a randomly chosen M is the plaintext.
remember the formula:
$$P(X=x|Y=y)=\frac{P(X=x\cup{}Y=y)}{P(Y=y)}$$
a system has "perfect secrecy" if for every $m\in\mathcal{M}$ and $c\in\mathcal{C}$,:
 $$P(M=m|C=c)=P(M=m)$$
 this means seeing the ciphertext gives no information on m
 ___
 
### One-time pad
for a given message and key of zeros and ones:
$enc_k(m)=k\oplus{}m$ 
$dec_k(c)=k\oplus{}c$ 
from this we can show that $dec_k(enc_k(m))=m$, and using the above rules on conditional probability show that it has perfect secrecy. Seeing the cryptogram gives no new information about the message

#### Drawbacks
- the length of the key reveals the length of the plaintext
- the key needs to be shared with both parties
- the key to be as long as the plaintext. This is always true for perfect secrecy
- the key cannot be used more that once. 

### Limits of perfect secrecy
The total number of  keys must be at least as large as the total number of messages. $|\mathcal{K}|\geq|\mathcal{M}|$
