There are some drawbacks to information-theoretic security discussed in the previous set of slides.
Shannon's definition does guarantee that no information about the plaintext is revealed, but the key must be the length of the plaintext. Maybe we can slightly weaken our security requirements to reduce this cost.

We'll relax two restrictions:
1. Security is only maintained against efficient adversaries with a realistic amount of time
2. Adversaries are allowed a very small probability to succeed.
The goal of these is to still make it so unlikely for the adversary to succeed that it's effectively impossible, even if it could happen.
Much of the work to do now is defining what efficient means, and how small a "very small probability" should be.
___
### Concrete (computational) approach
a scheme $(t,\epsilon)$ is secure if any adversary running for no more than $t$ steps has at most an $\epsilon$ chance of breaking the scheme
This gives us guarantees in terms of a measurable parameter $t$, which could be something like processor cycles.
However, this approach tells us nothing about runtimes not equal to $t$, and it's very sensitive to assumptions about algorithms used.

### Asymptotic (computational) approach
this is a more useful approach, that takes two values
- How efficient the computations used are, modelled in probabilistic polynomial time (PPT)
- the small chance of success, modelled in the notion of negligible function
We'll also make the assumption that honest parties (sender, receiver) are also PPT

For now, we'll focus on binary strings, and for PPT we want to focus on runtime in terms of the input length $n$

#### What is a negligible function?
if the adversary's chance of success is asymptotically smaller than $1/p(n)$ for any polynomial runtime $p$, the scheme is secure.

the function $f$ is negligible if for every polynomial p, there exists an integer $N$ such that:
for all $n\gt{}N$, $f(n)\lt\frac{1}{p(n)}$

So we need the probability of success to be smaller than 1 / a polynomial time function. As the size of the inputs increase, we need the chance for them to succeed to decrease exponentially.

negligible functions have some notable properties. 
- adding two negligible functions produces a negligible function
	- $negl_1(n)+negl_2(n)$ is negligible
- multiplying a negligible function by a polynomial function is negligible
	- $negl(n)*p(n)$ is negligible

Proving there doesn't exist a polynomial time algorithm to beak a system is hard, and often relies on reduction. While we often can't prove one exists, we can prove that "if a polynomial time algorithm exists, p=np".

#### Reduction
suppose the adversary $\mathcal{A}$ breaks the system $\Pi$.
Define the probabilistic polynomial time algorithm $\mathcal{A'}$, which uses $\mathcal{A}$ to solve a different problem $X$.
Show that if the chance of success $\epsilon$ is non-negligible, then the chance of $\mathcal{A'}$ solving $X$ is non-negligible

" If $\mathcal{A}$ exists, $X$ is not np-hard"
"if $X$ is np-hard, $\mathcal{A}$ does not exist"