Chimpanzee culture and communication

# Intro
non-human great apes include:
- chimps
- bonobos
- orangutans

all great apes have similar sensory abilities, similar bodies.

two types of field primatology
- with habituated great apes: able to follow them closely, the apes do not mind human presences
	- since you're close to the great apes, there are a number of quarantine/hygiene procedures that are necessary to follow
- with non-habituated great apes: cannot get too close, as apes are not used to human presence
# Culture
a group-specific behaviour learned and acquired by social learning
Used to be a human-specific term, but not anymore

first observed with in the 50s-60s washing sweet-potatoes in Japanese macaques, started with just one, but then spread to all the children in the group
the practice even evolved to other foods, and instead of bringing the foods to the ocean, they started digging wells into the beach to wash the food.
At first, this was called proto-culture.

Once this was published, other people started looking for it in animals they were studying, and these learned behavioural variations were found in a number of species

Criteria for culture in wild animals:
- documented behavioural variation
- test for differences in ecology driving the variation, if it's due to a different resource, might not be culture
- test for genetic variations causing the behaviour
- confirm behaviour is socially learned/taught

in 1999, paper came out observing chimpanzees in 6 different populations, showing different behaviours such as tool use/communication not inspired by ecological differences.
finally called culture, not just proto-culture

later, Pan African Programme studied 46 unhabituated chimpanzee communities, over 1.2-5 years. This was the Cultured Chimpanzee Project

couldn't get close to chimpanzees, used other means to obtain information:
- camera traps to record video, audio, images.
	- non-intrusive, but have limited range
	- these record so much information, hard to go through all footage to get relevant clips. CHIMP & SEE is an online project to assist with this, still up to this day

Research has shown that human negatively impacts chimpanzee cultural diversity.