Evolution is one way to view the world based on science. Other cultures and belief systems may use a different method.

two human-centred examples of evolution
- Lactose tolerance only in certain human populations, and only in humans in general
- different skin colours depending on UV exposure in the environment
	- Different races of people are nearly genetically identical, race is more of a cultural concept then a biological one

### Before Darwin
many different ideas, often based on an "essence", which everything was based on. This was called essentialism.
One view was the Great Chain of Being, where everything was made by God, and the further down the chain, the further from God or perfection. Humans were the most perfect life form, just below angels and God

Linnaeus created the ideas of taxonomy, organising life forms into separate species and categories

### Darwin & Wallace
university educated, wealthy, very upper class.
Wallace was younger, from a lower income family. He did not go to school after 13. 

They worked together, but Darwin is far more remembered.

# Theory of Natural Selection
change over time

- all species generally have more offspring then can survive
- there is variation within the same species
- species have to compete with itself for resources
- some variations are advantageous

Individuals with advantageous variations are more likely to survive, and therefore have more offspring. Then, its children are likely to also have this variation, which then gets passed on to the next generation, and so on
over time, as these advantageous variations are accrued,  potentially creating a new species

**Definition: Fitness**
- a measure of an organism's contribution to the gene pool of the next generation
- Not just a measure of genetics, environment and context also plays an important part

Natural Selection only operates on:
- Phenotypes
**Phenotypes vs Genotypes**
- Natural selection only operates on phenotypes
- Environment changes operate on genotypes

**Artificial Selection**
- Humans selectively breeding specific plants/animals with more desirable traits

### Humans
one of the most adaptable animals, able to live in a very wide set of environments
Humans have both society and culture
- society: life in organised groups
- Culture: learned traditions, customs, and beliefs

Humans need UV radiation to product vitamin D, but too much sunlight can be harmful. Melanin is very good at protection people from the harmful effects of radiation. People living in areas with more UV radiation needed more melanin, so they have darker skin. As people moved into cooler areas with less UV radiation, they didn't need as much melanin, which is why they have lighter skin.