Archaeology is inherently destructive, by definition they're disturbing historical locations in such a way that they cannot be put back to exactly how they were. Archaeologists take care to only disturb what they have to, and nothing more.

Depending on where in the world you are, archaeology may or may not be part of anthropology.

What do archaeologists do?
they tract patterns in human cultures by:
- identifying sites and areas once occupied by humans
- recovering artefacts and remains of past humans
- recording information about the context around what was found

Archaeology can't tell us everything, it can only show us what is left behind. Some materials don't preserve well. As time passes, less and less evidence will be left behind from any culture.

Inorganic materials like stone and ceramics are more represented as they survive longer. There's also a bias towards trash, and since it was a male-dominated field, has a male bias.

### Terms
- **Site**: precise location with remains of human history
-  **Feature**: Non-portable remnants at a site, such as houses or walls
- **Relative Dating**: giving a date to features and other artefacts by comparing them to other materials in the area 
- **Stratigraphy**: examines layers of sediment (strata). As they dig deeper, material will be relatively older than material closer to the surface (law of superposition). This is not a hard rule, things may have been disturbed in the past
- **Artefacts**: objects deliberately shaped by human/near-human activity. In cultural anthropology, includes from modern cultures, both objects and practices. Documents are counted as an artefact
- **Ecofacts**: plant and animal remains used to make inferences
	- Botanical(plant) remains
	- Faunal (animal) remains
- **Garbology**: study of modern garbage/landfills through the lens of traditional archaeology, and how what that tells us might differ from what people claim

#### Taphonomy
understanding what happens to biological remains after death. This covers things such as human/animal remains, tools, ceramics, or even parts of buildings.


## Paleolithic Timeline
thee sections, and it ended at the end of the last ice age:
##### Lower Palaeolithic
largest of the three, 3.3 million years ago  -> 300,000 years ago.

started with Homo habilis, then H. erectus. Humans first entered Europe.
##### Middle Palaeolithic
300,000 years ago -> 50,000 years ago

Origin of H. Neanderthals and H. sapiens
some basic burial practices started in this period.
##### Upper Palaeolithic
shortest of the three, 50,000 years ago >- 10,000 years ago.
The upper palaeolithic has the most dramatic changes for humans, called the Upper Palaeolithic Revolution. 
We're finding the earliest forms of art in this period, more intricate burial practices, and more specialized tools.

