# The Anthropology of Money
conventional account of origin of money: **Commodity theory**
- when bartering, it can be hard for both people to bring something of equal value, and for both people want what the other is offering.
- Money was to facilitate trades when these two conditions can't be met.
- At first, money was made of useful commodities, like grain, shells, food, or precious metals.
- Over time, metal became the preferred. They're durable, doesn't spoil, easily divisible, and small.
This theory does have some problems.
- Most money now is not based on commodities
- There's no evidence that there was ever a community that relied on barter for all exchanges.
- Even in the smallest communities we know, they've used some method of accounting.
- Example: Yap island in the pacific ocean
	- used large limestone wheels called fei up to 12ft in diameter. They were used for large exchanges, and had a different currency for small items. 
	- Since fei are so heavy, they don't even have to be moved in an exchange. There's a stone that fell into the ocean, and it can still be used.
	
**Token Theory of Money**
money is not a thing or commodity, but an abstract system. Money is just a tangible token to represent the abstract idea of value.


Earliest form of money we know of was from 5,000 years ago in Mesopotamia, they used clay tablets inscribed with the amount owed to the person, like IOUs. These IOUs could be exchanged to buy things.

The first coins in the archaeological record was found 2,000 years later in Lydia, they were tokens that represented credits.

Following this theory, going by archaeological evidence, virtual money came before commodity money. Money is a symbol, a means to track credits/debits.

#### Implications
Banks have vested interest in cementing money as a thing, not a symbol. By enforcing that money is a thing, and that it's subject to "natural laws", it justifies the banks power to create more money as part of its natural order.