Types of errors:
- **Formulation or modelling error**: use of incomplete mathematical models 
- **Data uncertainty/inherent error**: Noisy data, inaccurate measurements
- **Truncation error**: using inexact versions of exact mathematical functions. Happens often with trigonometry, or with any irrational number
- **Roundoff error**: caused by finite precision in computers used to represent real or complex numbers

We know we have error, but how do we measure it?
**Significant digits**:
	The number of digits we can be confident are correct.
	These are both used in calculations, how many digits to keep after each step.
	Also used to show how many digits are accurate in our final result
	Significant digits are a *discrete* way to measure error
**Absolute error**:
	The difference between the actual and approximate value. if $p$ is the exact value, and $p^*$ is the approximation:
	$$|E_t|=|p-p^*|$$
	This method can be good, but it doesn't take scale into account. But, this is easy to correct for:
**Relative error**:
	a normalized version of absolute error
	$$|\epsilon_t|=\frac{|p-p^*|}{|p|}=|1-\frac{p^*}{p}|$$
	Note that the *real* value, $p$, is the denominator.
	Relative error is a *continuous* way to measure error
**True error**:
	error in approximation when we know the correct value
**Approximate error**:
	error in approximation when we don't know the true value. Often measured with how the approximation changes from one state to the next.
	For many algorithms, as we continue iterating, the approximate will get closer and closer to the real value:
	$$|\epsilon_a|=\frac{|p_i-p_{i-1}|}{|p_{i-1}|}$$
___
Significant digits are nice for error since it's very intuitive compared to relative error. Even if it's less precise, it can be better for humans. we can calculate significant digits  from relative error with the following: if:
$$|\epsilon_t| \lt 5\times10^{-n}$$
then $p^*$ approximates $p$  up to $n$ significant digits.