How can we approximate a function, using a different, simpler type of function? Similar idea to Taylor series, approximating a function at a point with polynomials

These approximations can have a number of advantages
- continuity
- easy to integrate and differentiate
- easy to evaluate

there's three main classes used for approximations:
- Polynomials
- Piecewise polynomials (splines) 
- Trigonometric sums (Fourier series)

### Polynomial interpolation
$$P(x)=a_0+a_1x+a_2x^2+...+a_nx^n$$
if you have $n+1$ data points, there exists one and only one polynomial of order $n$ that passes through them all. Polynomial interpolation is trying to find that order $n$ polynomial for your data.

This is different from Taylor approximations. Taylor uses the function and it's derivative around one point, while interpolation doesn't know the function, just the value at some specific points.

#### Lagrange Interpolating Polynomial
given $(x_i,f(x_i))$, where $0\leq{}i\leq{}n$, and all $x_i$ are distinct, consider the function:
$$P(x)=\sum_{i=0}^nL_i(x)f(x_i)$$
remember, $x_i$ and $f(x_i)$ are given, we know what those are. We want to know what the function equals at $x$.
Here's how we define $L_i(x)$:
$$L_i(x)=\frac{(x-x_0)...(x-x_{i-1})...(x-x_{i+1})(x-x_n)}{(x_i-x_0)...(x_i-x_{i-1})(x_i-x_{i+1})...(x_i-x_n)}$$
$$\text{or}$$
$$L_i(x)=\prod_{j=0,j\neq{}i}^n\frac{x-x_j}{x_i-x_j}$$
Note that in both the numerator and denominator, the product does not include the $(x-x_i)$ term.

We can derive the general Lagrange interpolating polynomial for order 1:
$$P(x)=\frac{x-x_0}{x_1-x_0}f(x_0)+\frac{x-x_1}{x_0-x_1}f(x_1)$$
This equation grows quite large, quite fast. Here's order 2
$$P(x)=\prod_{j=0,j\neq{}0}^2(\frac{x-x_j}{x_0-x_j})f(x_0)+\prod_{j=0,j\neq{}1}^2(\frac{x-x_j}{x_1-x_j})f(x_1)+\prod_{j=0,j\neq{}2}^2(\frac{x-x_j}{x_2-x_j})f(x_2)$$

The denominator for each $L_i$ is a constant, so it can be calculated ahead of time. The numerator depends on our input $x$, so it has to be calculated when the whole approximation at a point is evaluated.

