The link layer is responsible for transferring a datagram from one node to a physically adjacent node, over a link (physical cable, wifi connection, LAN). 
**Note**: All data, including the headers, already in the packet are called *frames*.

datagrams transferred over different types of link require different protocols. For example, you need a different protocol to transfer data over wifi compared to ethernet. Each link protocol provide different services, so one protocol may not have reliable data transfer, while others will.

Side note: MAC address vs IP address:
- IP address is like the address to a house, while MAC address is like the name of each person in the house
- Every device has 1 IP address
- Every device has a MAC address for each connection. It'll have a MAC address for ethernet, a MAC address for wifi, for Bluetooth, and so on.

the MAC address in the frame header is used to identify both the source and destination, along with the IP address. The IP address is used to identify the device, and the MAC address is used to determine in what way the package should be delivered.

The link layer has a number of other services to help communication:
- flow control: ensures sender isn't sending too many packets at a time
- error detection: detects noise, frame drops, re-transmissions
- error correction: can identify and correct errors without requiring re-transmission
- half duplex and full duplex: half duplex allows both ends to transmit data, though not at the exact same time

if we're sharing a channel (sharing a wire, multiple connections on wifi), there can be interference if multiple nodes receive signals at the same time, called a collision. this is handled with **multiple access protocol**, which determines how the channel is shared, which node can transmit at what time. All communication for the protocol must happen in the channel, nowhere else.

Ideally, given a max transfer rate of $R$ bps in the channel, and $M$ nodes, each node should be able to transmit an average of $R/M$ bps. However, this is just *ideal*, not necessarily possible. At it's most basic level, in order to synchronise the nodes to prevent collisions, some form of timing messages must be used, taking away bandwidth.

Broadly, there are 3 MAC(Multiple access channel) protocols:
- channel partitioning: divide channel into "partitions" (time slots, frequency)
	- TMDA (Time Division Multiple Access): Each device is given a fixed length time slot, cycles through each device. If a device doesn't use the slot, it goes idle. Inefficient due to idle time, and still needs communication to synchronise.
	- FDMA (frequency division multiple access): divide the channel into multiple frequency bands, assign one to each device. if a device is idle, that frequency is idle.
- Random Access Protocol: when a node has to send a packet, transmit at the max transfer rate. If there's a collision, that time is wasted. The protocol detects and recovers from collisions
	- Slotted ALOHA: all frames are same size, time is divided into equal time slots, node only start to transmit at the start of a slot, all nodes detect a collision. When a frame is sent, there's two cases:
		- No collision: node can send new frame in next slot
		- Collision: note re-transmits frame is each next slot with probability $p$ until success. Ideal $p=1/N$. At best, has efficiency of 37%
	- Unslotted ALOHA: no synchronization, no slots, just send as soon as a node has a frame to send. only 18% efficient
- CSMA (carrier sense multiple access):
	- simple: listen before transmitting. If the channel is idle, transmit the entire frame. Otherwise, wait.
	- p-persistent: if the channel is idle, transmit with probability $p$. Otherwise, wait
	- CSMA/CA: once a transmitting node detects a collision, it immediately stops transmitting. This is used in the internet.

Ethernet CSMA/CA
1. receive datagram, create frame
2. if Ethernet senses channel:
	-  if idle, start transmission
	-  if busy, wait until idle
3. if frame is sent without collision, Done!
4. if a collision is detected, about and send jam signal
5. after aborting, enter binary exponential backoff:
	-  after the $m$th collision, chose number $k$ from $\{0,1,..2^{m-1}\}$.wait $512*k$ bit times, go back to step 2.
how efficient is it?
let $T_p$=max propagation delay between two nodes
let $t_t$ be time to transmit a max-size frame
$$e=\frac{1}{1+5T_p/t_t}$$
efficiency goes to 1 as propagation delay goes to zero and time to transmit max-size frames goes to infinity

What if we're communicating on wifi and:
- two devices (a, c) are trying to communicate with b
- a and c are too far away to hear each other
- a and c both send signals at the same time
Now b cannot read either signal, and neither a nor c know a collision has happened. What do we do? This is the hidden terminal problem
Let's break the protocol into sender and receiver
Sender:
- if channel is idle, transmit the entire frame
- if channel is busy, start random backoff timer. Transmit when the timer expires. If it doesn't get an ACK, restart step
Receiver:
- if the frame is received properly, return ACK after a delay SIFS. This will be visible to any node that can communicate with it, even if those nodes could not hear each other.

