Basic goals:
- show basic cryptography tools
- look at applications in security tasks; authentications, identification, key exchanges...

**Cryptography is not security**. cryptography is just a component of security, this course does not cover any other aspects of security.

___
#### Cryptology
Cryptology is the science of secret communication. It's separated into two branches:
- Cryptography is a branch of cryptology, it creates systems for secret communication
- Cryptanalysis is the branch that tries to find/take advantage of flaws in a cryptographic system.
In this course, we use the more general definition of cryptography; designing tools to achieve specific security goals. These could be confidentiality, integrity/verification, etc...

Course has three main sections

Foundations:
- history of cryptography
- foundations of modern cryptography
- formal definitions
- pseudorandomness 
Practice of private key encryption and authentication
- DES
- Cryptanalysis
- AES
- Message Authentication Codes (MAC) based on block ciphers or hash functions
Public-key primitives
- RSA
- El Gamal
- encryption
- digital signatures
___
# Private key cryptography
used up to the 1970s.
Also known as symmetric encryption, same key is used for both encryption and decryption.
1. Sender encodes the message $m$ with the key $k$.
2. The encrypted message, now called $c$ is then sent to the receiver
3. The receiver uses the same key $k$ do decrypt the message
An eavesdropper can only see the encrypted message $c$.

$K$: set of all keys
$P$: set of all plaintexts
$C$: set of all ciphertexts. 
There's three functions in this system:
- Gen: key generation
- Enc: encryption $K\times{}P\rightarrow{}C$
- Dec: decryption $K\times{}C\rightarrow{}P$
Randomization is used in key generation and encryption, but not in decryption.
$$Dec_k(Enc_k(m))=m$$

There's three questions that are always important to ask:
- what information is available to an adversary?
	- might have one or multiple ciphertexts
	- might have a rough idea of the type of contents in the message
- What computational power does the adversary have?
	- what tools do they have access to?
	- How long do they have?
- how is the adversary's success determined?
	- Are they trying to recover the message?
	- Are they trying to recover the key??

### Adversarial knowledge
there's four assumed categories of adversarial knowledge

Ciphertext only
- they know some number of ciphertexts and nothing else

Known plaintext
- adversary knows some number of plaintexts, and their corresponding ciphertexts.

Chosen plaintexts
- adversary knows the ciphertexts corresponding to plaintexts *chosen by* the adversary

Chosen ciphertext
- adversary knows plaintexts corresponding to some ciphertexts  chosen by the adversary
### Adversary power
adversary has some computational power, but is bound by some resources
Important concept is reduction, similar to CSC 320. We want to use computationally hard systems in our algorithms, and we need to prove that they are hard.
### Adversary success
what goals might the adversary have?
- Recover the secret key
- Recover an encrypted message
- Recover *any* information about the message

the third goal is the easiest for them to achieve. If we make a system that's able to prevent any information from being discovered, we have the strongest form of security.
___
### Kerckhoff's Principle
the cipher method must not be required to be secret. If the adversary finds out what method you use for encryption, it must still be secure.