# P1: Eavesdropping security
Situation where adversary only has cryptograms, but may have multiple.

Remember the old definition of secrecy:
$$P(M=m|C=c)=P(M=m)$$
Meaning any message is equally likely, from any given ciphertext

Different definition of Shannon's perfect secrecy:
$\Pi$=<Gen,End,Dec> has perfect secrecy iff for all $m_0,m_1,$ and $c$:
$$Pr(Enc_k(m_0)=c)=P(Enc_k(m_1)=c)$$
Meaning that any given ciphertext is equally likely to be encoded from any message. This is called *Perfect Indistinguishability*

### Formal definition of private-key encryption
$\Pi$=(Gen,Enc,Dec)
key $k$<-Gen($1^n$). Assume $|k|\gt{}n$

Enc takes key $k$ and message $m\in{0,1}$, and produces ciphertext $c$ as output.
We write: $c\leftarrow{}Enc_k(m)$ to emphasize that **Enc is random**

Dec takes key $k$ and ciphertext $c$, and produces message $m$ as output.
We write $m:=Dec_k(c)$ to emphasize that **Dec is deterministic**

We will assume a length boundary for message $m$.
___
### Eavesdropping indistinguishability experiment
$$PrivK_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{eav}(n)$$
a game between adversary and challenger
the adversary $\mathcal{A}$ is given input $1^n$, and outputs messages $m_0,m_1$, where $|m_0|=|m_1|$.

The challenger then generates a key by running Gen($1^n$), and a random bit $b$, 0 or 1, is chosen.

$\mathcal{A}$ is given $c\leftarrow{}Enc_k(m_b)$

$\mathcal{A}$ has to return a bit $b'$.

if $b=b'$, the adversary wins.

This whole process can be summed up as "The adversary gives us two messages. We encrypt both, give them one, and they have to tell us which it is."

since there's two possible values for $b$, the chance of the adversary is always at least $1/2$. We want to make sure the chance only negligibly greater than $1/2$.

if $PrivK_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{eav}(n)=1$, we say $\mathcal{A}$ succeeds.
$\Pi$ has indistinguishable encryptions in the presence of eavesdropping
adversaries if for every PPT $\mathcal{A}$, there exists $negl$ such that:
$$(PrivK_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{eav}(n)=1)\lt1/2+negl(n)$$


Another way of setting it up:
Let $PrivK_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{eav}(n,b)$ denote $PrivK_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{eav}(n)$ where input $b$ is what we set the random bit to. now, we let the output $b'$ be the adversary's guess. 

We can now tie this back to perfect indistinguishability:

$\Pi$ has perfect indistinguishability if for every adversary $\mathcal{A}$:
$$P(PrivK_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{eav}(n)=1)=\frac{1}{2}$$
