What rules should we follow to ensure that C code is safe, portable, and maintainable? There's two standards:
- BARR-C
- MISRA C:2012
MISRA is more restrictive than BARR, and much longer. BARR is recommended for this project.

### Rules
BARR - use C99
MISRA - use C90-C99
BARR - minimize use of `pragma`
BARR don't alter keywords with `#define`

BARR - 
- **Braces**: on separate lines, not right after an if statement
- Don't rely on operator precedence, use parentheses.
- Comment every instance of casting, as it is dangerous. Make sure it can't overflow
- don't use the `auto` keyword, it's unnecessary
- don't use the `register` keyword
- avoid using `goto` and `continue` (prof says use continue)
- use the `int_t` or `uint_t` family in place of chars and any type of int, but use `char` for string declarations
- only have one return statement in a function, not in if statements (MISRA agrees)
- declare function prototypes for every function in the header
- all private functions are static
- constant on the left in any inequality tests, prevents accidental assignments instead of equality check
- don't use results of assignment operator. Keep assignments isolated in their own lines.
- don't use increment and decrement operations together.
- avoid the comma operator
- don't use floats as loop counters (why would you do this?)
- *all* if statements should be followed with an else statement, even if it's empty
___
C is still not the safest language for critical systems. Another option is  to use ADA
