### Misc optimization
**Constant folding**
	simplify constant expressions.
	`x = 2 * 3 * 4`
	a good compiler shouldn't do two multiplications, but don't just hope you have a good compiler. Simplify to `x = 14`.
**Constant propagation**
	if you know a value at compile time, just use constants instead of variables in expressions when possible
**Common subexpression elimination**
	if a subexpression is used multiple times, replace it with a temp variable
	`a=b*c+d`
	`g=b*c+h`
	`b*c` is calculated multiple times. Calculate it once, and use it multiple times
**Partial redundancy elimination**
	If there's an if statement for example, don't have a case where something is computed twice. This is a partial redundancy, the code is redundant part of the time. Don't do this
**Peephole optimization**
	look at small window of assembly instructions and trying to optimize. Sometimes compilers introduce redundancy, that peephole optimization has to remove. Often done by compilers.
**Dead code elimination**
	Remove code that will never be reached, or does not impact the program. A good example of this is code after return statements.
**Loop fusion**
	don't loop over the same values multiple times, merge the loops into one bigger loop. HOWEVER, this is not always better. If you're working on two arrays in one loop, for example, depending on cache and array size it might cause more cache misses.
**Loop fission**
	if you are  getting cache misses in a loop, try breaking it into two smaller loops.