### Why do software testing?
- Ensures requirements/specifications are met
- test boundary conditions
- help guide the design of the software
- support future changes
Using tests can give us the confidence that the product is functional

Testing can help reduce debugging, and can serve as documentation in same cases.
### How does testing work?
since we release often, we need to automate testing. This means we need a system that verifies correct behaviour in both "good weather" and "bad weather". Make sure it works when users do what's intended, and that it's stable even if they try to break it.

However, testing can be expensive and time consuming. We can't test every single interaction, so we need to decide exactly which features and which interactions to test. We might, for example, want to put more tests in a payment system than anything else.
### When do we test?
In test-based programming, you should start writing tests before writing any code. As the program is developed, the cost of repair get significantly larger. The sooner we catch any faults, the cheaper the project is.
___
# Principles of Software Testing
There's seven principles of software testing 
1. Exhaustive testing is impossible. all combinations and possible inputs grows far too quickly. Plan for good test coverage, not to test everything.
2. Knowing when to stop. Try to maximize the number of bugs found, while minimizing the time spent finding them.
3. "the pesticide paradox". you need to use different types of test to find different bugs. No one type of test can catch everything.
4. Testing does not assure the absence of errors. 
5. Defect clustering. Bugs tend to group together in the same area. If you find a bug, test that area further. 80% of the effects come from 20% of the causes.
6. Verification is not validation. 
	- verification is building the software right
	- validation is building the right software
7. Testing is context-dependent. Different systems in different contexts will require different types of tests.