JUnit supports both black box testing and white box testing.
- Black box: test does not know what is inside the function or class, all it knows is the expected inputs and outputs.
- White box: the test does know the contents of the class, if the class is public and the test is in the same project.

the basic idea of unit testing is to test small subsystems as we write them.

### Structure of automated test
uses AAA format: Arrange, Act, Assert
- Arrange: define input variables and expected output
- Act: use the method we want to test
- Assert: Check if the output is expected

# JUnit
basic structure for a test in JUnit5
```java
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Applications;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;

public class Test{
	
	@Before
	void setup(){
		// Setup for the tests if needed
	}

	@Test
	void Test1(){
		Assertions.assertEquals(expected, actual);
	}

	@Test
	void Test2(){
	//...
	}
}
```

The function names aren't required to have test, but it's good to make sure names make sense

assertions:
```java
assertEquals(expected, actual, delta)
// The delta is to compare floats, it's the margin error

assertSame(expected, actual)
assertNotSame(expected, actual)
// only if object implements ==, or you want to check if it's the same instance in memory

assertTrue(boolean)
assertFalse(boolean)

assertNull(Object)
assertNotNull(Object)

fail(string_message)
```
Every method can take a failure message as an argument.
If there's no assert function, the test will always pass.
You can have multiple assertions in a test, but it's better to have as few as possible for two reasons: if the test fails, you have to figure out which assert failed; and if the first assert fails, it won't even try the later assertions.
#### Exceptions
```java
assertThrows(ExceptionsType.class,
			 () -> method())
```
This will pass if the method **does** throw the exception. use it to test for expected errors.
that weird thing is a lambda, creates an anonymous method.
If you're testing for an exception that's not just calling a class:
```java
assertThrows(ExceptionType.class,
			() -> {
				//example code
			})
```
This will test for exceptions in the example code block
### Timeouts
it's important to stop tests in case they get into infinite loops. You can add a timeout to prevent that
```java
@Test
@Timeout(5) // seconds
void loopingTest(){
	//...
}

//OR
static final int TIMEOUT = 5
@Test
@Timeout(TIMEOUT)
void loopTest2(){
	//...
}
```

### Setup and Teardown
```java
@BeforeEach
@BeforeAll

@Test

@AfterEach
@AfterAll
```
**This is different from the textbook, which uses JUnit4**