here's the scenario:
"a package of bars stores a number of kilos. 1 kilo for small bars, 5 kilos for large bars. Calculate the number of large and small bars, using large bars first. If you can't output -1. Output should be number of small boxes. Input is number of small bars, number of large bars, and box size".
Examples:

| small bars | large bars | box size | output (small bars used) |
| ---------- | ---------- | -------- | ------------------------ |
| 1          | 3          | 11       | 1                        |
| 7          | 3          | 20       | 5                        |
What would we test?
- no bars
- only small
- only large
- both small and large
- invalid numbers
- not enough bars


This is equivalence, or category-partition testing. We split out domain into pieces called partitions, and then we do one test for each partition.

We only need to test each partition once, the behaviour should be the same for the entire partition. We should try to reduce human cost by writing no more tests then needed.

But along with partitions, we need to think about boundaries.

Lets think about a situation where:
- 1 small bar isn't enough
- 2 small bars are enough
- 3 small bars are enough
So 1 and 2 are a boundary between enough and not enough. We should test both sides of the boundary.
Let's formalise the vocabulary
$$X\geq100$$
- Any value below 100 is an **out point**. They evaluate to false
- any value equal to or greater than 100 is an **in point**. They evaluate to true
- 99 is the **off point**. It's the boundary of the out points.
- 100 is the **on point**. it's the boundary of in in points.

What do you do when you have multiple boundaries?
- Test each boundary individually
- when testing a boundary, always make sure all other values are **in points**