Let's say we have a very large class that has many functions, and many dependencies. How to we test this class without all of its dependencies? We use test doubles!
Let's say we want to test A, which has dependencies on B and C. We create B' and C', lightweight simulations of B and C. They don't need full capabilities, we just need them to interact with A.

These test doubles are also known as "Mock Objects". They mimic existing objects, but give us better control and are more observable.

There's a few types of test doubles, shown here in order of increasing complexity:

Dummy:
- objects that are passed to the test class, but aren't used. it won't have any functions, it just serves to exist as an argument/dependency
Stub:
- instead of A accessing a database, it calls a stub which has some hard-coded values for testing.
Mock:
- can return hard-coded values like stubs, but they can also check behaviours. This could mean making sure a mock function is only called once, or to check what values were sent to it.
Spies:
- Instead of replacing the real dependency, a spy will wrap around a dependency and observe its behaviour. It's not used much, it's often easier to use some sort of fake object.
Fakes:
- has a simpler implementation than the real object it's trying to simulate, but it does have an implementation. Maybe it uses an arrayList instead of a database, for example.

___
### Mockito
Mockito is a testing framework for mock objects.
it has three methods:
`mock(<class>)` creates a mock/stub of the given class
`when(<mock>.<method>).thenReturn(<value>)` used in stubs, returns what you specify when a method is called
`verify(<mock>).<method>`: used in mocks, asserts that interactions with the mock object happened in a certain way.

Advantages of mocks:
- can test classes before they're written
- reduces work done to run tests
- it's faster to run tests

Disadvantages of mocks:
- might have to test the mock
- if the function is changed, tests will likely have to be changed
- mocks are usually more coupled with the code

It's good to use mocks instead of slow dependencies, dependencies with external infrastructure, or in cases that are hard to simulate.
It's not good to mock native libraries, simple things, or lightweight entities. These are easy enough to use directly.