instead of testing by example, we could give a tool the general properties of what we want to test, and it could generate test cases for you. We'll be using `jqwik` for this

for each property we want to test, we create a method with `@property` in our test class

Let's look at a basic example: grades range from 1.0-10.0, grades >= 5 are a pass. grades outside that range are invalid

```java
@Property
void fail(
   @ForAll
   @FloatRange (min = 1.0, max = 5.0, maxIncluded = false)
   float grade) {
    assertFalse(pg.passed(grade))
)
```
this property will try a large number of floats from 1.0 inclusive to 5.0 exclusive, and assert that the grading function returns false/fail. It's easy to change to make it test passing values:
```java
@Property
void pass(
   @ForAll
   @FloatRange (min = 5.0, max = 10.0, maxIncluded = true)
   float grade) {
    assertTrue(pg.passed(grade))
)
```

Now, how do we test invalid values? it's any float not in this range, so we need to test numbers both above and below. Since this is a bit more complex, we'll create a provider method to make `grade`
```java
@Property
void invalid(
  @ForAll("invalidGrades")
  float grade) {
    assertThatThrownBy(() -> {
      pg.passed(graded);
}).isInstanceOf(IlligalArgumentException.class)}
)

@Provide
private Arbitrary<Float> invalidGrades() {
   return Arbitraries.OneOf(
    Arbitraries.floats().lessThan(1f),
    Abritraries.floats().greaterThan(10f))
}
```
when `invalidGrades` returns a value, it has an equal chance of returning a value from each of its arbitraries. This means 50% chance of returning a value below 1, 50% chance of a value greater than 10

### Example: `unique()`

`unique()` is passed an array, and returns an array sorted in descending order, only containing the unique values in the original array.
Null arrays result in `NullPointerException`
Empty arrays are allowed
Infinities are allowed

when creating lists to pass to it:
- ensure list size is larger than value range, to ensure duplicates

When we call it, we want to assert that:
- it contains all elements in input array
- it is sorted in descending order
- it has no duplicates.
```java
@Property
void unique (
  @ForAll
  @Size(value=100) // array length
  List<@IntRange(min=1,max=20) Integer>
  numbers) { 

	// created a list, need an array
	int[] doubles = convertListToArray(numbers)
	//create expected output
	int[] result = MathArrays.unique(doubles)
	
	assertThat(result)
	 .contains(doubles)
	 .doesNotHaveDuplicates()
	 .isSortedAccordingTo(reverseOrder());
	}
```
we would need to create `convertListToArray`, but it's self-explanatory what it does

### Example: `indexOf()`
searches array for index. takes array, value to find, and start index
null array returns -1
negative start index is treated as 0
start index greater than list returns -1 
returns -1 if object is null or not found

inputs
array of Integers
- null, single element, multiple elements
valueToFind
- any integer
startIndex
- negative
- 0
- positive
- too large

we can use all these for example-based test casing, what we've talked about before this class.
Here's the plan for property based testing
- create array of length 100
- all values between +- 1000
- insert a single value not already in the array, into a random index
- set the start value to a random number
```java
@Property
void indexOf (
  @ForAll
  @Size(value = 100)
   List<@IntRange(min=-1000,max=1000)
     Integer> numbers
  @ForAll
  @IntRange(min=1001,max=2000) int value
  @ForAll
  @IntRange(max=99) int indexToAddElement
  @ForAll
  @IntRange(max=99) int startIndex
) {
	int[] array = convertListToArray(numbers);

	int expectedIndex;
	if (startIndex <=indexToAddElement)
	   expectedIndex=indexToAddElement;
	else
	   expectedIndex=0;

	assertThat(ArrayUtils.indexOf(array,value,startIndex))
	.isEqualTo(expectedIndex)
}
```
There's a lot of values to set up, but if you can find good ranges to test, it's very effective. Do be careful though, these tests tend to be more complex.

Property-based testing does **not** replace example-based testing. Always start with example-based tests, then move on to property-based testing if you need more security, for critical functions.