When calling functions, there's some conditions, some *contracts* that are expected to be followed. in a stack, for example, you're expected to only pop an element if the stack isn't empty. This is a pre-condition. it's also expected that the stack will be one element smaller, this is a post-condition.

These conditions can be enforced with `assert` commands at the very start and end of the function. If you do this, it's good practice to disable insertions in production code, and only use them while in testing.

let's say we have a list of favourite books called `favourite`, and we want to merge it with another list of favourite books `books`. What pre-conditions might we want to have for this method?
- `assert books != null`
- `assert !books.isEmpty()`
- `assert favourites != null`
- `assert !favourites.containsAll(books)`
we're ensuring neither list is null, that we are trying to add at least one book, and `books` contains at least one book not already in `favourites`.

We could weaken the pre-conditions by removing the assertion that `books` is not empty, but then we need to add it in the form of an `if` statement later in the method.
There is good reason to do this, it can make the method easier for others to call.
We could make it even easier for the client to call the method and remove the condition `!favourites.containsAll(books)`, but once again that puts the burden on us to separate all the new books to add.
These two examples would be *weak* pre-conditions, they're expected to be followed for the method to run well, but failing to do so will not crash the program.
The `assert` keyword enforces *strong* pre-conditions, you *must* follow them or the method will throw an error

for example about books, what post conditions might we have?
Before making post-conditions, it's important to understand that a function may have different paths to exit the function. You may need different post-conditions or assertions depending on the branch of the method it finishes in.

### Invariants
Invariants are a conditions that should be true at all times through the life of a system, object, structure, ...
Something like in a binary search tree, the left child should always be smaller than the right at all times.
Another is that a node's children recognize the node as its parent

an assertion P is a class invariant for class C, if: For all public constructors of C, and all methods in C, lead to an appropriate value for P.
the invariant would be enforced at the end of the constructor, and before+after each method.

in our books example, an invariant would be that `favourite` is never null
