What's most important according to a questionnaire given to Apache, Eclipse, and Mozilla?
- steps to reproduce
- test cases
- stack traces
Observed and expected behavior are common to include, and it's good to include them, but it's not always helpful on its own.

What do they say cause the most delay in a bug report
- incorrect observed behaviour
- incorrect steps to reproduce
- incomplete information in general

General advice
- Short: don't send anything not important
- Self-contained: "copy, paste, compile, run". send code that can be run by itself, and clearly shows the bug
- Correct: follows naming conventions, standards, protocols. Includes comments if needed
- Example: Make sure code does display the bug


### Bug life cycles
1. Starts as unconfirmed
2. someone confirms bug exists, "Confirmed"
3. Developer starts working on bug, "in progress"
4. Developer says bug is fixed, "Resolved"
5. QA verifies the bug is patched, "Verified"
This is the ideal cycle, but it doesn't always go this way. A bug might get reopened, if they thought they fixed the bug, but didn't.

A bug also might not be resolved for a number reasons
- not a bug
- isn't clearly described
- can't be reproduced
- too much effort for how important the bug is

Backporting is for when there's multiple versions of the software in active use. When fixing a bug, backporting is also porting the fix to older versions. It's often only done for critical bugs.
This is often done for Long-Term Support (LTS) versions, which are intended to be safe, stable versions of the software

