Test suits grow, and can grow unorganized and unmaintainable if you don't put effort into keeping it quality.
### Principles of a maintainable test base
1. Tests should be fast: We need to run them many times. The faster we get feedback, the more time we can spend fixing it.
	1. use mocks and stubs to speed up tests
	2. redesign production code, isolating slow code from fast code
	3. separate fast code you run through the day from tests you need to integrate your code
2. Tests should be cohesive, independent, and isolated: Tests should only depend on production code, not on each other. Each test should only test a single functionality
3. Tests should have a reason to exist: They should either help to find bugs, or help to document behaviour. Coverage is not a reason to write tests.
4. Tests should be repeatable, not flaky: no matter how many times you run a test, it should always return the same result.
5. Tests should have strong assertions: Don't just run the functionality. Make sure that if an output changes, our tests catch it.
6. Tests should break if behaviour changes: in structural testing, make sure each branch that's covered is actually tested. Test this by intentionally adding a bug to see if the test catches it.
7. Tests should have a single, clear reason to fail: This way you know what to look for when debugging. Make sure tests have clear names and variable names, clear assertions.
8. Tests should be easy to write: if you have hard to test code, it's easy to ignore testing it. You'll also want to write many tests, this takes time
9. Tests should be easy to read: use actual variable names, make it clear what the test is for. Refactor tests as needed to make them easier to read. Using fluid builders/test data builders for complex objects may improve readability.
10. Tests should be easy to change and evolve: code changes, tests change as well. Make this as easy as possible.