Waterfall method:
1. Requirements analysis: defining requirements, good to do in quick-to-write languages like python
2. Specification: look at requirements and specifications not from perspective of users, but of the developers; how you'll do what you need. Implementation hidden from the user.  Done in languages like Modula-2
3. Design: What frameworks, how many abstractions
4. Implementation: 
5. Validation, verification: making sure the program fits the specification
6. Maintenance

Another method of design: iterative/incremental:
go between specification, design, and implementation in a cycle, gradually iterating on the program

### Language Paradigms
Imperative (Fortran, Pascal, C++, Java)
- system has state
- state is mutable, statements can change it
functional (Lisp, Scheme, Haskell, ML)
- in a pure form, there is no state
- functions just transform input to output
- easier to prove correctness
logic (Prolog)
- not really covered in this course.
- "Here's the facts, here's what I want you to prove"
- maybe look into this? sounds interesting
dataflow (Lucid, TensorFlow)
- models computation as a flow of information as tokens amongst nodes
- parallel
data-parallel (CUDA)
- gives good control over large-scale parallelisation
intensional (Lucid again)
- 



Criteria 1: expressive power
- match the programming language to the problem's domain. Things like using R for math, or Perl for string processing
Criteria 2: Simplicity and Orthogonality
- Programs easy to write and understand
- languages give a way to deal with complexity
- base constructs can be combined in any way you want (ex. combining arrays and any data type)
Criteria 3: implementation
- compilation and interpretation
- hybrid approaches such as Java, or mixed languages
Criteria 4: error detection and correction
- two definitions of error:
	1. programmer did not intend the operation
	2. programmer did intend operation, but it was prohibited
- an error is always due to the programmer. the failure is the visible problem, and the fault is where something went wrong.
- How does the language help to prevent errors?

Criteria 5: correctness and standards
- axioms and rules for each language
- more things