Von Neumann architecture - code and data in same memory bank
Harvard architecture - code and data are separated
imperative languages are abstractions of these architectures.

Let's look at variables, they're defined by a number of characteristics, starting with names.

Names have a number of design issues:
- are there reserved words we can't use?
	- a keyword is a special word that can only be used in certain contexts (`for`,`while`,...)
	- reserved word cannot be used as a user-defined name
- how long can the name be, how short should they be?
	- arbitrarily long names can be quite difficult to implement. C99 has no limit, but only the first 63 are significant. C# and Java have no limit.
- What do we do with special/non-alphanumeric characters?
	- PHP enforces that all variable names start with `$`
	- Perl variables start with special characters to denote the variable's type
	- Ruby has `@` for instance variables, `@@` for class variables.
- Are names case sensitive?
	- SQL, BASIC, and Fortran are case insensitive, but this is very uncommon now.
	- case sensitivity is generally a good thing, but it can on occasion lead to typos
Scary stuff.

### Variables
a variable is an abstraction, it refers to a value in memory.
- name: there are cases where variables have names. In that case, there must be some other variables with the address to access it.
- address: location in memory where the address is stored
	- can change at different times in execution
	- may have different address at different places in a program
	- if multiple variables point to the same place in memory, they are called aliases. These can cause issues to readability.
- Type: defines range and operations of values, things like `float`,`char`
- value:
	- l-value: normally a variable's address
	- r-value: the value of the variable
- lifetime and scope
### Binding
Binding: an association between entity and attribute. relation between variable and its type, or between an operation and a symbol
Binding Time, for example, is the moment/time at which the association indicated by the binding is established
different binding times:
- Language-design: binding operator symbols to operation
- Language implementation: binding floating point type to representation, binding size of int
- Compile time: binding variable to type in C or Java, binding operation to symbol in operation overloading
- Load time: bind static variable to memory in C/C++
- Runtime: bind non-static local variable to memory cell

we can largely collapse those 5 different binding times into 2:
- static: binding that occurs before program is executed
- dynamic: binding that occurs once program is executed

#### Type binding
how do we specify the type of a variable, and when does this binding take place?
Explicit declarations: `int var`,`char var2`, when you clearly state the type
Implicit declarations: `var = 5`, `var2='c'`, type is decided through default mechanism, or through naming conventions like in PHP. 