Can use one of two main toolchains for Rust
- `rustc`
- `cargo`
We'll be using `cargo` for this class

to make a full package for a new project, type in terminal: `cargo new <project-name>`. This create a full directory for you.

Once in the directory, type `cargo build` to compile the project, and `cargo run` to run it. There's also `cargo test`, to run all functions in the project that have `#[test]` above them
```rust
#[test]
fn testAdd() {
	// ...
}
```

if you change a file, you can just run `cargo run` and it'll compile for you
`cargo clean` will remove all binaries and intermediate files
___
Type inference:
You do not need to provide a type when declaring a variable, but it can help.
```rust
// no specification
let ans = 42;

// optional specification
let ans : u32 = 42;

// required specification
let ans : i64 = "42".parse().unwrap();
// parse is converting the string to our specified i64. if you don't specify type, it won't compile
```


Control flow:
We have our usual `for`, `while`, `if-else` commands
```rust
fn main() {  
  for i in 0..5 {  
    let even_odd = if i % 2 == 0 {"even"}       else {"odd"}; 
    println!("{} is {}", i, even_odd);  
  }  
}
```
Note that we have an if statement in an assignment.
We also have `map()` and `filter()`
later we'll look at pattern matching `match()`

Functions:
parameters must by typed, along with return values
there is no `return` keyword, it just returns the evaluation of the final line in the function.
**DO NOT ADD SEMICOLON ON FINAL LINE IN FUNCTION**

Memory:
variables are **immutable by default**.
If you want a variable to be mutable, you need to explicitly declare this with the `mut` keyword

Vectors:
create with `let mut v = Vec::new()`
vector type is decided by the first element pushed into it.

`Option<T>`: used to handle cases where a function may or may not return something. Instead of checking for `null` or anything like that, we used the `Options` enum.
`Options` has two possible values:
`None, Some(T)`, for some type T. We use `match` to handle options.

Match is for more than just `Options`, it can be used for pattern matching! They're like switch statements, but must have all cases, and has no fall-through.


Strings: strings can be stored on the stack or the heap.
`&str` is immutable, allocated on the stack
`String` is mutable, and allocated on the heap.


Tuples, arrays, structs: groups of data elements.
Tuples: not all the same type of data
Arrays: all the same data type
Structs: similar to C
Unlike with C, you can sort of add functions to structs with `impl`
```rust
struct Person {
	first: String
	last: String
}

impl Person {
  fn new(firstnm: &str, lastnm: &str) -> Person {
    Person{
    first: firstnm.to_string(),
    last: lastnm.to_string()
    }
  }

  fn full_name(&self) -> String {
    format!("{} {}", self.first, self.last)
  }
}
```
now, we can call the functions in `impl Person` from an instance of a `Person` struct
`let p = Person::new("John", "Smith");`
`name = p.full_name();`

### Ownership
each value has a single owner. Once this owner goes out of scope, the value is deallocated. If you make a value in a function, when the function returns the value goes out of scope.
Rust allows entities to *borrow* values, giving them ownership of the value. You do this by adding `&` in the function call
```rust
fn add(p1: &i32, p2: &i32) {
	p1 + p2
}

fn main() {
let one = 5;
let two = 3
let sum = add(&one, &two)
}
```
if we want to mutate the value, we need to declare this both when the variable is declared, and in the function signature
```rust
fn add_first(p1: &mut i32, p2: $mut i32)
{
	p1 += p2
	p1
}

fn main() {
let mut one = 5;
let two = 3
let sum = add(&one, &two)
println!("{}", one); // = 8
```

### Traits
rust is not object oriented, but it does have something called ad-hoc polymorphism, using the `trait` keyword with `impl`.
```rust
trait Show {
	fn show(&self) -> String;
}

impl Show for i32 {
	fn show(&self) -> String {
		// function implementation
	}
}

impl Show for i64 {
	fn show(&self) -> String {
		// function implementation
	}
}

fn main() {
	let answer: i32 = 5;
	println("{}", answer.show());
}
```
it's very similar to interfaces with java. You can add this trait to anything you want, each with their own implementation.

Rust also has sub-type polymorphism, like a parent-child relation in Java, and parametric polymorphism, where code is written to accept a generic type

generic types:
what if we want to write a function to find the largest value in a vector of both `int` and `char`?
```rust

// Case specificall for i32
fn large_i32(list: &[i32]) -> &i32 {
	let mut largest = &list[0];
	
	for item in list {
		if item > largest {
			largest = item;
		}
	}
	largest
}

// generic case
fn largest<T>(list: &[T]) -> &T {
	let mut largest = &list[0];
	
	for item in list {
		if item > largest {
			largest = item;
		}
	}
	largest
}
```
the name `largest<T>` means it's a generic function over some type `T`
It takes in a list, a slice of values with the type `T`
it returns a reference to a value with the type `T`


What's going on with slices in that example?
in those examples, main is passing in a vector, but according to the function signatures, it's getting a list. This is a slice. It's like a window into an existing vector, not a whole new list.

Slices are probably immutable, and you can have multiple overlapping slices of the original list. You can even take a slice of a slice. Behind the scenes, a slice of a slice is treated as a slice of the original list.

Slices work on strings too!

### Recursive data structures
Very important for assignment 3!

#### `Box<T>`: smart-pointer
Box is always allocated to the heap, even for basic types like integers, which are always on the stack.

for a situation where size cannot be determined at compile time, which is pretty much anything recursive
also used for passing large data structure ownership

basic examples
```rust
fn main() {
	let a=Box::new(10); // i32 on heap
	let b=Box::new(5_i64); // b=5, is i64
	
	// We can treat these just like
	//regular variables
	println!("{}", a);
}
```

Recursive examples:
think of old school list `(1, (2, (3, Nil)))`, made of using head and tail sort of like Haskell (actually like Lisp)

```rust
// DOES NOT WORK!!!
enum List {
	Cons(i32, List),
	Nil,
}

// Does work
enum List {
	Cons(i32, Box<List>),
	Nil,
}

// lets us use Cons or Nil
// otherwise need to use List::Cons
use crate::List::{Cons, Nil}; 

fn main() {
	let my_list = Cons(
		1, Box::new(Cons(
			2, Nil
		))
	)
	// my_list = (1, (2, Nil))
}
```


another example, binary tree
```rust
#[derive(Debug)]
struct Node {
	value: String,
	// Options mean it could be
	// Some or None
	left: Option<Box<Node>>,
	right: Option<Box<Node>>,
}
```

